.TH sethead(1) WCSTools "6 July 2001"
.SH Name
sethead \- Set FITS or IRAF header keyword values
.SH Synopsis
sethead [-dknv][r letter] <FITS or IRAF file> kw1=val1 kw2=val2 ... kwn=valuen
.SH Description
Set parameters in the header of a FITS or IRAF image.  If the keywords do
not already exist, they are added at the end of the header.  Values are
assumed to be numeric if they contain no alphabetic characters and
right-aligned.  Otherwise they are left-aligned after the equals sign,
and padded by spaces to a minimum of 8 characters.
To set keywords in a list of files, substitute @<listfile> for the file
names on the command line.  To set a lot of keywords, put them, one per
line, in a file and substitute @<keylistfile> on the command line.
If two @ commands are present, the program will figure out which contains
file names and which contains keywords.  Lines in a keyword list file which
do not contain an = are ignored.

.SH Options
.TP
.B \-h
Write HISTORY line into output header with 
.B sethead
version, current date and time, and names of keywords set.
.TP
.B \-k
Write SETHEAD keyword into output header with 
.B sethead
version, current date and time, and names of keywords set.  
If a SETHEAD keyword already exists, move the old value to a
HISTORY line before writing the new value
.TP
.B \-n
Write a new file with an added "e" before the extension.
.TP
.B \-r letter
Rename existing keywords whose values are being reset by prepending
the character "letter".  Drop the last character if the changed
keyword is already 8 characters long.
.TP
.B \-v
Print confirmations of each parameter setting
.SH Web Page
http://tdc-www.harvard.edu/software/wcstools/sethead.html
.SH Author
Doug Mink, SAO (dmink@cfa.harvard.edu)
