.TH wcstools(1) WCSTools "6 July 2001"
.SH Name
wcstools \- Programs to access image world coordinate systems and catalogs
.SH Setting an Image World Coordinate System
.TP
imwcs
Automaticaly find stars in a FITS or IRAF image, match them to HST Guide
USNO A or USNO UJ Stars, compute the relation between sky coordinates and
image coordinates, and write in in the image header. [after U of Iowa SETWCS]
.TP
delwcs
Delete the WCS keywords from an image. If both EPOCH and EQUINOX are
present, EQUINOX is also deleted. 
.SH Using an Image World Coordinate System
.TP
imcat
List catalog sources which should be found in the area of the sky
covered by a specific image.
.TP
imsize
Print center and size of image using WCS keywords in header
.TP
imstar
Find and list the n brightest stars in an IRAF or FITS image, with their
sky coordinates if there is WCS information in the image header. 
.TP
sky2xy
Print image pixel coordinates for given sky coordinates on the command line
or in a list file. 
.TP
xy2sky
Print sky coordinates for given image pixel coordinates on the command line
or in a list file.
.SH Catalog Utility Programs
.TP
scat
Search the HST GSC, USNO-A2.0, or other catalog given a region on the sky.
.TP
.TP
skycoor
Convert between J2000, B1950, and Galactic coordinates from the command
line or a file.
.SH Image Utility Programs
.TP
addpix
Add a constant value(s) to specified pixel(s)
.TP
edhead
Edit the header of a FITS file or the user parameters of an IRAF image file
using a the text editor specified by the EDITOR environment variable.
.TP
gethead
Return values for keyword(s) specified after filename.
.TP
getpix
Return value(s) of specified pixel(s)
.TP
i2f
Read two-dimensional IRAF image file and write FITS image file
.TP
imhead
Print FITS or IRAF header
.TP
imrot
Rotate and/or reflect FITS or IRAF image files
.TP
setpix
Set specified pixel(s) to specified value(s)
.TP
sethead
Set header parameters in FITS or IRAF images.
.TP
subpix
Subtract a constant value(s) from specified pixel(s)

.SH Author
Doug Mink, SAO (dmink@cfa.harvard.edu)
