.\"  Copyright 2010-2011 University Of Southern California
.\"
.\" Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License");
.\" you may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\" You may obtain a copy of the License at
.\"
.\"  http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0
.\"
.\"  Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing,
.\"  software distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,
.\"  WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.
.\"  See the License for the specific language governing permissions and
.\" limitations under the License.
.\"
.\" 
.\" $Id: pegasus-remove.1 4235 2011-07-28 00:17:54Z gmehta $
.TH "pegasus-remove" "1" "3.1.0" "Pegasus Workflow Planner"
.SH "NAME"
pegasus\-remove \- removes a workflow that has been planned and submitted using pegasus\-plan and pegasus\-run

.SH "SYNTAX"
.LP 
.B pegasus\-remove [options] [rundir]
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
.LP 
The pegasus\-remove command remove a submitted/running workflow that has been planned and submitted using pegsus\-plan and pegasus\-run. The command can be invoked either in the planned directory with no options and arguments or just the full path to the run directory. 
.SH "ARGUMENTS"
.LP
By default pegasus\-remove does not require any options or arguments if invoked from within the planned workflow directory. If running the command outside the workflow directory then a full path to the workflow directory needs to be specified or the dagid of the workflow to be removed
.P
pegasus-remove takes the following options
.TP
.B \-d
.PD 0
.TP
.PD 1
.B \-\-dagid dagid
The workflow dagid to remove
.TP
.B \-v
.PD 0
.TP
.PD 1
.B \-\-verbose
Raises debug level. Each invocation increase the level by 1.
.TP
.B rundir
Is the full qualified path to the base directory containing the planned workflow dag and submit files. This is optional if pegasus\-remove command is invoked from within the run directory.

.SH "RETURN VALUE"
If the workflow is removed successfully pegasus\-remove returns with an exit code of 0. However, in case of error, a non\-zero exit code indicates problems. An error message clearly marks the cause.

.SH "FILES AND DIRECTORIES"
The following files are opened :
.TP
.B braindump
This file is located in the rundir. pegasus\-remove uses this file to find out paths to several other files.

.SH "ENVIRONMENT VARIABLES"
.TP
.B PATH
The path variable is used to locate binary for condor\-rm

.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR pegasus\-plan (1), pegasus\-run (1)
.SH "AUTHORS"
.LP
Gaurang Mehta  <gmehta at isi dot edu>
.LP 
Jens\-S. Vöckler <voeckler at isi dot edu>
.PP 
PEGASUS
.B http://pegasus.isi.edu

