.\"  Copyright 2010-2011 University Of Southern California
.\"
.\" Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License");
.\" you may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\" You may obtain a copy of the License at
.\"
.\"  http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0
.\"
.\"  Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing,
.\"  software distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,
.\"  WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.
.\"  See the License for the specific language governing permissions and
.\" limitations under the License.
.\"
.\" 
.\" $Id$
.TH "pegasus-get-sites\" "1" "1.0.0"  ""PEGASUS Workflow Planner""
.SH "NAME"
.LP 
pegasus\-sc\-client \- generates a site catalog by querying sources.
.SH "SYNTAX"
.LP 
.B pegasus\-sc\-client 
[\-Dprops] 
[\-\-source <source for querying site information>] 
[\-g|\-\-grid <given grid for generating site catalog>] 
[\-o|\-\-vo <user's virtual organization>]
[\-s|\-\-sc <site catalog file path>] 
[\-p|\-\-properties <properties file path>]
[\-V|\-\-version]
[\-v|\-\-verbose] 
[\-h|\-\-help]  
 

.SH "DESCRIPTION"
.LP 
pegasus-sc-client generates site catalog by querying sources like OSGMM,MYSOG etc.
.LP 

.SH "ARGUMENTS"
.TP
.B \-\-source  <source for querying site information>
the source to query for site information. Valid sources are OSGMM|MYOSG|VORS

.TP
.B \-g
.PD 0
.TP
.PD 1
.B \-\-grid <given grid for generating site catalog>
the grid for which to generate the site catalog information

.TP
.B \-o
.PD 0
.TP
.PD 1
.B \-\-vo <user's virtual organization>    
the virtual organization to which the user belongs. the default VO is LIGO.
The collector host should be set by default unless overriden by property pegasus.catalog.site.osgmm.collector.host according to the following rules
if VO is ligo then collector host queried is ligo-osgmm.renci.org
if VO is engage then collector host queried is engage-central.renci.org
for any other VO engage-central.renci.org will be queried and  all the paths name of engage VO will be replaced with the name of the VO passed . e.g
if user specifies the VO to be cigi , engage will be replaced by cigi in the directory paths 

.TP
.B \-s
.PD 0
.TP
.PD 1
.B \-\-sc <site catalog file path>
the path to the created site catalog file

.TP
.B \-p
.PD 0
.TP
.PD 1
.B \-\-properties <properties file path>
generate a pegasus properties file containing the SRM properties.The properties file is created only if the source is set to OSGMM.

.TP
.B \-v
.PD 0
.TP
.PD 1
.B \-\-verbose
increases the verbosity of messages about what is going on


.TP
.B \-V
.PD 0
.TP
.PD 1
.B \-\-version
displays the current version number of the  Pegasus Workflow Planner
Software.

.TP
.B \-h
.PD 0
.TP
.PD 1
.B \-\-help
Displays all the options to the
.B pegasus-sc-client
command.

.SH "EXAMPLE"
.TP
Runs pegasus-sc-client and generates the site catalog :\-
.nf 
\f(CB
 pegasus-sc-client --source OSGMM --sc osg-sites.xml --vo LIGO --grid OSG
\fP
.fi 
 
.SH "AUTHORS"
Prasanth Thomas 
.PP 
.br 
PEGASUS
.B http://pegasus.isi.edu