.\"  Copyright 2010-2011 University Of Southern California
.\"
.\" Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License");
.\" you may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\" You may obtain a copy of the License at
.\"
.\"  http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0
.\"
.\"  Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing,
.\"  software distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,
.\"  WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.
.\"  See the License for the specific language governing permissions and
.\" limitations under the License.
.\"
.\" 
.\" $Id: pegasus-cleanup.1 4110 2011-07-06 19:29:14Z voeckler $
.TH "pegasus-cleanup" "1" "3.1" "Pegasus Cleanup"
.SH "NAME"
.LP 
pegasus\-cleanup \- Removes files during Pegasus workflows enactment.
.SH "SYNTAX"
.TP 17 
.B pegasus\-cleanup [\-\-help|\-h]
.br
.B [\-\-loglevel|\-l level] 
.br
.B [\-\-file|\-f URL] 
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
.LP 
.B "pegasus\-cleanup"
Removes the file associated with the given URL. Some of the protocols
pegasus-cleanup can handle are GridFTP,
SRM, Amazon S3, HTTP, and local mkdir.
.SH "ARGUMENTS"
.TP
.B \-\-help | \-h
Prints a usage summary with all the available command-line options.
.TP
.B \-\-loglevel | \-l level
he debugging output level. Valid values are
.IR debug , 
.IR info ,
.IR warning , 
.IR error .
Default value is
.IR info .
.TP
.B \-\-file | \-f FILE
Specifies the file with URLs (one per line). If this option is not given
it is assumed that the lisf of URLs will be given on stdin.

.SH "EXAMPLES"
.LP
echo gsiftp://somehost/some/path | pegasus-cleanup
.SH PEGASUS
.B http://pegasus.isi.edu

