.\"  Copyright 2010-2011 University Of Southern California
.\"
.\" Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License");
.\" you may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\" You may obtain a copy of the License at
.\"
.\"  http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0
.\"
.\"  Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing,
.\"  software distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,
.\"  WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.
.\"  See the License for the specific language governing permissions and
.\" limitations under the License.
.\"
.\" 
.\" $Id$
.TH "pegasus-run" "1" "3.1.0" "Pegasus Workflow Planner"
.SH "NAME"
pegasus\-run \- executes a workflow that has been planned using pegasus\-plan.

.SH "SYNTAX"
.LP 
.B pegasus\-run [options] [rundir]
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
.LP 
The pegasus\-run command executes a workflow that has been planned using pegasus\-plan. By default pegasus\-run can be invoked either in the planned directory with no options and arguments or just the full path to the run directory. pegasus\-run also can be used to resubmit a failed workflow by running the same command again.
.SH "ARGUMENTS"
.LP
By default pegasus\-run does not require any options or arguments if invoked from within the planned workflow directory. If running the command outside the workflow directory then a full path to the workflow directory needs to be specified.
.P
pegasus-run takes the following options
.TP
.B \-Dpropkey=propvalue
The \-D options allows an advanced user to override certain properties which influence pegasus\-run. One may set several CLI properties by giving this option multiple times.
.I The \-D option(s) must be the first option on the command line. 
CLI properties take precedence over the file\-based properties of the same key.
.LP
Please refer to the
.I PROPERTIES
section below.
.TP
.B \-c pegasus_properties_file
.PD 0
.TP
.PD 1
.B \-\-conf pegasus_properties_file
Provide a property file to override the default pegasus properties file from the planning directory. Ordinary users do not need to use this option unless the specifically want to override several properties
.TP
.B \-d level
.PD 0
.TP
.PD 1
.B \-\-debug level
Set the debug level for the client. Default is 0.
.TP
.B \-v
.PD 0
.TP
.PD 1
.B \-\-verbose
Raises debug level. Each invocation increase the level by 1.
.TP
.B \-\-grid
Enable grid checks to see if your submit machine is GRID enabled.</para
.TP
.B rundir
Is the full qualified path to the base directory containing the planned workflow dag and submit files. This is optional if pegasus-run command is invoked from within the run directory.

.SH "RETURN VALUE"
If the workflow is submitted for execution pegasus\-run returns with an exit code of 0. However, in case of error, a non\-zero exit code indicates problems. An error message clearly marks the cause.

.SH "FILES AND DIRECTORIES"
The following files are created, opened or written to :
.TP
.B braindump
This file is located in the rundir. pegasus\-run uses this file to find out paths to several other files, properties configurations etc.
.TP
.B pegasus.?????????.properties
This file is located in the rundir. pegasus\-run uses this properties file by default to configure its internal settings.
.TP
.B workflowname.dag
pegasus\-run uses the workflowname.dag or workflowname.sh file and submits it either to condor for execution or runs it locally in a shell environment

.SH "PROPERTIES"
pegasus\-run reads its properties from several locations.
.TP
.B RUNDIR/pegasus.??????????.properties.
The default location for pegasus-run to read the properties from
.TP  
.B \-\-conf propfile
properties file provided in the conf option replaces the default properties file used. 
.TP
.B $HOME/.pegasusrc 
will be used if neither default rundir properties or \-\-conf propertiesfile are found.
.P 
Additionally properties can be provided individually using the 
.B \-D<propkey=propvalue> 
option on the command line before all other options. These properties will override properties provided using either \-\-conf or RUNDIR/pegasus.???????.properties or the $HOME/.pegasusrc
.P 
.I The merge logic is CONF PROPERTIES || DEFAULT RUNDIR PROPERTIES || PEGASUSRC overriden by Command line properties

.SH "ENVIRONMENT VARIABLES"
.TP
.B PATH
The path variable is used to locate binaries for condor\-submit\-dag, condor\-dagman, condor\-submit,pegasus\-submit\-dag, pegasus\-dagman and pegasus\-monitord

.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR pegasus\-plan (1),
.SH "AUTHORS"
.LP
Gaurang Mehta  <gmehta at isi dot edu>
.LP 
Jens\-S. Vöckler <voeckler at isi dot edu>
.PP 
PEGASUS
.B http://pegasus.isi.edu

