.\"  Copyright 2010-2011 University Of Southern California
.\"
.\" Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License");
.\" you may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\" You may obtain a copy of the License at
.\"
.\"  http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0
.\"
.\"  Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing,
.\"  software distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,
.\"  WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.
.\"  See the License for the specific language governing permissions and
.\" limitations under the License.
.\" Southern California. All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" $Id$
.\"
.\" Authors: Jens-S. Vöckler
.\"
.TH "pegasus-dax-validator" "1" "3.1.0" "Pegasus WMS"
.SH "NAME"
pegasus\-dax\-validator \- determines if a given DAX file is valid. 
.SH "SYNOPSIS"
.B pegasus-dax-validator daxfile [verbose]
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
The
.I pegasus-dax-validator
is a simplistic application that determines, if a given DAX file is
valid XML. For this, it parses the file with as many XML validity 
checks that the Apache Xerces XML parser framework supports. 
.SH "ARGUMENTS"
.TP
.B daxfile
is the mandatory argument, the location of the file containing the DAX. 
.TP
.B verbose
is an optional argument. If any kind of second argument was specified, 
not limited to the string
.IR verbose ,
the verbose output mode is switched on. 
.SH "RETURN VALUE"
If the DAX was parsed successfully, or only 
.I warnings 
were issued, the
exit code is 0. Any 
.I error 
or 
.I fatal error 
will result in an exit code of 1. 
.PP
Additionally, a summary statistics with counts of warnings, errors, and
fatal errors will be displayed.
.SH "EXAMPLE"
The following shows the parsing of a DAX file that uses the wrong kind 
of value for certain enumerations. The output shows the errors with the
respective line number and column number of the input DAX file, so that
one can find and fix them more easily. (The lines in the example were
broken to fit the manpage format.)
.PP
.nf
\f(CB
$ pegasus-dax-validator bd.dax 
ERROR in line 14, col 110: cvc-enumeration-valid: Value 'i386' is not
 facet-valid with respect to enumeration '[x86, x86_64, ppc, ppc_64,
 ia64, sparcv7, sparcv9, amd64]'. It must be a value from the
 enumeration.
ERROR in line 14, col 110: cvc-attribute.3: The value 'i386' of
 attribute 'arch' on element 'executable' is not valid with respect to
 its type, 'ArchitectureType'.
ERROR in line 14, col 110: cvc-enumeration-valid: Value 'darwin' is
 not facet-valid with respect to enumeration '[aix, sunos, linux, macosx,
 windows]'. It must be a value from the enumeration.
ERROR in line 14, col 110: cvc-attribute.3: The value 'darwin' of
 attribute 'os' on element 'executable' is not valid with respect to
 its type, 'OSType'.

0 warnings, 4 errors, and 0 fatal errors detected.
\fP
.fi
.SH "SEE ALSO"
Apache Xerces-J
.B http://xerces.apache.org/xerces2-j/
.SH "AUTHORS"
Jens-S. Vöckler <voeckler at isi dot edu>
.PP
Pegasus
.B http://pegasus.isi.edu/
