.\"  Copyright 2010-2011 University Of Southern California
.\"
.\" Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License");
.\" you may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\" You may obtain a copy of the License at
.\"
.\"  http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0
.\"
.\"  Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing,
.\"  software distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,
.\"  WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.
.\"  See the License for the specific language governing permissions and
.\" limitations under the License.
.\"
.\" 
.\" $Id: pegasus-analyzer.1 4110 2011-07-06 19:29:14Z voeckler $
.TH "pegasus-transfer" "1" "3.1" "Pegasus Transfer"
.SH "NAME"
.LP 
pegasus\-transfer \- Handles data transfers in Pegasus workflows.
.SH "SYNTAX"
.TP 17 
.B pegasus\-transfer [\-\-help|\-h]
.br
.B [\-\-loglevel|\-l level] [\-\-file|\-f inputfile]
.br
.B [\-\-file|\-f dag_filename] [\-\-dir|\-d|\-i input_dir]
.br
.B [\-\-max\-attempts attempts]
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
.LP 
.B "pegasus\-transfer"
takes a list of url pairs, either on stdin or with an input file,
determines the correct tool to use for the transfer and executes the
transfer. Some of the protocols pegasus-transfer can handle are GridFTP,
SRM, Amazon S3, HTTP, and local cp/symlinking. Failed transfers are
retried.
.SH "ARGUMENTS"
.TP
.B \-\-help | \-h
Prints a usage summary with all the available command-line options.
.TP
.B \-\-loglevel | \-l level
he debugging output level. Valid values are
.IR debug , 
.IR info ,
.IR warning , 
.IR error .
Default value is
.IR info .
.TP
.B \-\-file | \-f inputfile
File with input pairs. If not given, stdin will be used.
.TP
.B \-\-max-attempts attempts
Maximum number of attempts for retrying failed transfers.

.SH "EXAMPLES"
.LP
  pegasus-transfer
  file:///etc/hosts
  file:///tmp/foo
  CTRL+D
.SH PEGASUS
.B http://pegasus.isi.edu

