.\"  Copyright 2010-2011 University Of Southern California
.\"
.\" Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License");
.\" you may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\" You may obtain a copy of the License at
.\"
.\"  http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0
.\"
.\"  Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing,
.\"  software distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,
.\"  WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.
.\"  See the License for the specific language governing permissions and
.\" limitations under the License.
.\"
.\"
.\" $Id$
.\"
.\" Authors: Prasanth Thomas
.\"
.TH "pegasus-statistics" "1" "1.0.0" "PEGASUS Workflow Planner"
.SH "NAME"
pegasus-statistics \- A tool to generate statistics about the workflow execution.

.SH "SYNOPSIS"
.B pegasus-statistics <submit directory>
[\-o|\-\-output <output directory>] 
[\-m|\-\-monitord]
[\-c|\-\-condor]
[\-k|\-\-keep]
[\-v|\-\-verbose] 
[\-h|\-\-help] 
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
The pegasus-statistics generates statistics about the workflow execution like job's run time, condor queue delay etc. 

.SH "ARGUMENTS"
.TP
.B \-o <output directory>
.PD 0
.TP
.PD 1
.B \-\-output  <output directory>
Writes the output to the given directory 

.TP
.B \-m
.PD 0
.TP
.PD 1
.B \-\-monitord
Invokes pegasus-monitord beforre running pegasus-statistics.

.TP
.B \-c
.PD 0
.TP
.PD 1
.B \-\-condor
Specifies a pure condor run with no GRID_SUBMIT events

.TP
.B \-k
.PD 0
.TP
.PD 1
.B \-\-keep
Keeps the log created by the pegasus-statistics run.

.TP
.B \-v
.PD 0
.TP
.PD 1
.B \-\-verbose
Enters the verbose mode.

.TP
.B \-h
.PD 0
.TP
.PD 1
.B \-\-help
Displays all the options to the
.B pegasus-statistics
command.

.SH "ENVIRONMENT VARIABLES"
.TP
.B PEGASUS_HOME
points to the installation base directory of your the PEGASUS execution
environment. 

.SH "EXAMPLE"
.TP
Runs pegasus-statistics and writes the output to the given directory :\-
.nf 
\f(CB
 pegasus-statistics  -o /scratch/statistics /scratch/grid-setup/run0001
\fP
.fi 
 
.SH "AUTHORS"
Prasanth Thomas 
.PP 
.br 
PEGASUS
.B http://pegasus.isi.edu

