.\"  Copyright 2010-2011 University Of Southern California
.\"
.\" Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License");
.\" you may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\" You may obtain a copy of the License at
.\"
.\"  http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0
.\"
.\"  Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing,
.\"  software distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,
.\"  WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.
.\"  See the License for the specific language governing permissions and
.\" limitations under the License.
.\"
.\"
.\" $Id$
.\"
.\" Authors: Jens-S. Vöckler, Yong Zhao
.\"
.\"
.TH exitcode 1 "August, 30th 2004"
.SH NAME
exitcode \- parse invocation records
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B exitcode
[\-Dprop [..]] [\-d db-prefix | -n] [-l log] [-e] [-f] [-i] [-l tag -m ISO] [-v] file [..]
.br
.B exitcode
[\-Dprop [..]] \-V
.SH DESCRIPTION
The exit code parsing command allows DAGMan to obtain remote exit codes,
and act accordingly. Additionally, remote exit codes allow to trace
provenance of job executions, when inserted back into the VDC. 
.SH ARGUMENTS
.TP
.B \-Dprop
The -D options allows an experienced user to override certain properties
which influence the program execution, among them the default location of
the user's properties file and the PEGASUS home location. One may set several
CLI properties by giving this option multiple times.
.I The -D option(s) must be the first option on the command line. 
A CLI property take precedence over the properties file property 
of the same key.
.TP
.B \-d db-prefix 
.PD 0
.TP
.PD 1
.B \-\-dbase db-prefix
The database prefix is currently unused.
.IP
Default is to use the VDC pointed to by the
.I pegasus.db.schema
property. If this property is unset, the 
.I SingleFileSchema
becomes the chosen schema, and the property
.I pegasus.db.schema.file.store
defaults to
.IR $PEGASUS_HOME/var/pegasus.db ,
the eventual default database file. 
.IP
.B exitcode
is unable to add provenance records to a file-based VDC. 
.TP
.B \-e
.PD 0
.TP
.PD 1
.B \-\-empty\-fail
activates the fail-on-empty mode. In this mode, a result file of size
zero constitutes a failure.
.IP
Due to NFS problems at the remote sites, the default is to assume
success, if file exists, even if it is of size zero. 
.TP
.B \-v
.PD 0
.TP
.PD 1
.B \-\-verbose
activates the verbose mode. This is equivalent to setting the property
.I pegasus.log.app
to 
.IR stdout .
More details about the program execution will become visible at the 
command-line.
.IP
Default is to be more silent about the program execution, as it is
expected to be called from non-interactive agents. 
.TP
.B \-i
.PD 0
.TP
.PD 1
.B \-\-ignore
Disables the exit-code parsing. This mode may be of benefit, if the
job is not important enough to have the workflow fail. 
.IP
Default is to extract the exit code and externalize it.
.TP
.B \-n 
.PD 0
.TP
.PD 1
.B \-\-noadd
Disables the database insertion of the provenance information. The
provenance information will only inserted, if the chosen database
schema supports invocation records. If it does not, the
.B \-n
mode will implicitely be chosen. 
.IP
Default is to add the invocation record to the VDC, if it allows it.
.TP
.B \-l tag
.PD 0
.TP 
.PD 1
.B \-\-label tag
permits all invocation records to be associated with a workflow
identification tag. The tag has a maxiumum length of 32 characters. It
is expected to be the 
.I label
that was provided to the
.I gendax
command. 
.IP
Default is not to store any tag. This option should be used in
conjunction with the 
.I \-m
option. 
.TP
.B \-m iso
.PD 0
.TP
.PD 1
.B \-\-mtime iso
associates a timestamp with all invocations records. The timestamp has
to be specified as ISO 8601 compliant full timestamp, e.g.
.IR 2005-06-10T15:20:11-0500 . 
It is expected
that the timestamp derives from the modification time of the .dax file
produced by the
.I gendax
command. 
.IP
Default is not to store any timestamp. This option should be used in
conjunction with the 
.I \-l
option. 
.TP
.B \-V
.PD 0
.TP
.PD 1
.B \-\-version
displays the version of the GriPhyN PEGASUS Planner you are using.
.TP
.B file [..]
The given invocation record will be added to the database. One or more
files can be added with each invocation.
.SH "RETURN VALUE"
When not in 
.B \-i 
mode, a set of exit codes is employed to signal the exit code of the
remote main job to the calling instance (usually DAGMan):
.TP
.B 0
is returned, if the remote main job exited with an exit code of 0. An
empty invocation record file will also be assumed to be a successful
execution. 
.TP
.B 1
is returned, if the remote main job exited with a non-zero exit code.
.TP
.B 2
is returned, if the grid launch mechnaism was incapable of starting
the application for some reason. The usual reason is a mis-specified
path to the application.
.TP
.B 3
is returned, if the remote main job died on a signal.
.TP
.B 4
is returned, if the remote main job was suspended. Usually, you should
not see this state.
.TP
.B 5
is returned, if the invocation record had an invalid state, was not
parsable, or is simply non-existent. 
.TP
.B 6
denotes an illegal state. Please inform 
.I pegasus-support@griphyn.org .
.TP
.B 7
denotes that an exception was caught during the execution. This is
always bad. You may want to run in verbose mode to obtain more
information about the cause (stack trace), and provide the PEGASUS team
with the file (typically the .out file) you run with. 
.TP
.B 10
is an error message from the shell wrapper. The environment variable
.I JAVA_HOME
was not set. Thus, the 
.I java
executable cannot be found and invoked.
.TP
.B 11
is an error message from the shell wrapper: The environment variable
.I PEGASUS_HOME
was not set.
.TP
.B 12
is an error message from the shell wrapper: The environment variable
.I CLASSPATH
is suspiciouly empty.
.PP
When working in 
.B \-i 
mode, the exit code from the database operation will be returned. A zero
exit code means all is well while a non-zero exit code indicates failure.
.PP
If both 
.B \-i
and
.B \-n
are given, the latter may be turned on implicitely, the command degenerates
into a no-operation.
.SH FILES
.TP
.B $PEGASUS_HOME/etc/iv-1.5.xsd
is the suggested location of the latest XML schema to read the database.
.TP
.B $PEGASUS_HOME/etc/properties
contains the system properties with all configurable options.
.TP
.B $HOME/.pegasusrc
contains the user properties with all configurable options.
.TP
.B pegasus.jar
contains all compiled Java bytecode to run the GriPhyN PEGASUS Planner.
.SH "ENVIRONMENT VARIABLES"
.TP
.B $PEGASUS_HOME
must be set to the base directory of your the execution environment.
.TP
.B $JAVA_HOME
must be set and point to a valid location to start the intended Java
virtual machine as
.IR $JAVA_HOME/bin/java .
.TP
.B $CLASSPATH
must be set to contain all necessary files for the execution environment.
Please make sure that your 
.I CLASSPATH
includes the Xerces 2 classes.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR gendax (1),
.BR kickstart (1).
.SH EXAMPLE
.nf
\f(CB
$ exitcode date.out
$ echo $?
0

$ exitcode -vvv date.out
2005.08.16 13:10:52.816 CDT: [app] will use /home/voeckler/pegasus/etc/iv-1.5.xsd
2005.08.16 13:10:52.823 CDT: [app] starting to parse invocation
2005.08.16 13:10:53.470 CDT: [app] invocation 1 was parsed successfully
2005.08.16 13:10:53.575 CDT: [app] invocation already exists, skipping!
2005.08.16 13:10:53.576 CDT: [app] exit status = 0
$ echo $?
0
\fP
.fi
.SH RESTRICTIONS
Plenty. 
.SH AUTHORS
Jens-S. Vöckler <voeckler at cs dot uchicago dot edu>,
.\"Jens-S. V\*:ockler 
.br
Mike Wilde <wilde at mcs dot anl dot gov>,
.br
Yong Zhao <yongzh at cs dot uchicago dot edu>.
.PP
Chimera
.B http://pegasus.isi.edu
.br
GriPhyN
.BR http://www.griphyn.org/
