.\" This file or a portion of this file is licensed under the terms of
.\" the Globus Toolkit Public License, found in file GTPL, or at
.\" http://www.globus.org/toolkit/download/license.html. This notice must
.\" appear in redistributions of this file, with or without modification.
.\" 
.\" Redistributions of this Software, with or without modification, must
.\" reproduce the GTPL in: (1) the Software, or (2) the Documentation or
.\" some other similar material which is provided with the Software (if
.\" any).
.\" 
.\" Copyright 1999-2004 University of Chicago and The University of
.\" Southern California. All rights reserved.
.\" 
.\" $Id$
.TH "pegasus-run" "1" "1.3.9" "GriPhyN PEGASUS Planner"
.SH "NAME"
.LP 
pegasus\-run \- setup of workflow environment and runs a workflow.
.SH "SYNTAX"
.LP 
.B pegasus\-run \-\-help
.LP 
.B pegasus\-run [\-Dprops] [\-d l | \-v] [\-m fn] rundir
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
.LP 
This script assumes that the 
.I pegasus\-plan
tool has prepared directories and a workflow for running. The hierarchy
of directories is also part and parcel of a secondary key to find the
workflow in the workflow database, as explained below in
.IR HIERARCHY .
Specifying just the workflow base directory (rundir), it performs basic
sanity checks, starts DAGMan, starts the workflow monitoring daemon
.I tailstatd
and records a started state of the workflow into the workflow database. 
.SH "ARGUMENTS"
.TP
.B \-Dprop
The -D options allows an experienced user to override certain properties
which influence the program execution, among them the default location of
the user's properties file and the PEGASUS home location. One may set several
CLI properties by giving this option multiple times.
.I The \-D option(s) must be the first option on the command line. 
CLI properties take precedence over the file-based properties of the
same key. \-D properties are passed to subsequent tools. 
.IP
Please refer to the
.I PROPERTIES
section below.
.TP 
.B \-\-debug lv
.PD 0
.TP 
.PD 1
.B \-d lv
sets the debug level to a specific level. A higher debug level increases
the message verbosity on 
.IR stderr . 
.IP
The default debug level is 0.
.TP
.B \-\-verbose
.PD 0
.TP
.PD 1
.B \-v
raises debug level. A higher debug level will increase the verbosity of
the output messages on
.IR stderr .
This is a multi\-option, each specification will increase the debug
level by 1.
.IP 
The default debug level is 0.
.TP
.B \-\-monitor fn
.PD 0
.TP
.PD 1
.B \-m fn
This option permits to start a different workflow monitoring daemon. It
is mostly a developer option. 
.IP
Default is to use what property
.I wf.monitor
points to, which in turn defaults to
.IR $PEGASUS_HOME/bin/tailstatd .
.TP
.B \-\-condor
is an experimental option. If specified, the workflow monitoring daemon 
is not started by forking off a process, but rather as Condor job. This
way, should the host fall over, Condor will automagically restart the
workflow monitoring daemon. 
.TP
.B \-\-vdd l
is an experimental option. For the WS-GRAM, it is considered beneficial
to re-use delegation of the user proxy. The PEGASUS delegation daemon caches
and manages user delegations, so that they can be re-used. 
.LP
The 
.B rundir
is the fully-qualified path to the base directory of the workflow. The
base directory of the workflow is where the .dag file resides. 
.SH "RETURN VALUE"
If the plan could be constructed, 
.I pegasus\-run
returns with an exit code of 0. However, in case of error, a non-zero
exit code indicates problems. An error message clearly marks the cause. 
.SH "FILES AND DIRECTORIES"
The workflow tools support a somewhat rigid directory hierarchy, made up
of four parts: 
.TP
.B 1.
The 
.I basedir
is the directory where the other directories spring from. For personal
workflows, it can be 
.I $HOME/run
and for shared workflows in a sharable location.
.TP
.B 2.
The
.I vogroup
is the next level. The directory name is directly taken from the 
.I -g option
above. If a directory of this name does not exist, it is created. 
.TP
.B 3.
The
.I wflabel
is the label of the workflow, as supplied to the abstract planning
process, e.g. 
.I gendax 
or 
.IR vdlc . 
If a directory of this name does not exist underneath the vogroup
directory, it is created. 
.TP
.B 4.
The
.I rundir
is a numbered directory to permit multiple replans of the same workflow
(dax file). If no rundir exists, the first one will be created.
Otherwise, each invocation will create the next run directory. 
.LP
Together, the four directories form a quadruple. The quadruple is also
the secondary key that can be used to locate the workflow inside the
workflow database. 
.SH "PROPERTIES"
.LP
Properties are read from
.BR $PEGASUS_HOME/etc/properties ,
.B $HOME/.pegasusrc
and
.B $HOME/.pegasusrc
with rising priority. 
Properties are read and evaluated according to the PEGASUS property
precedence rules. Additionally,.pegasusrc properties are merged. Please refer
to the property documentation for in\-depth description of properties
and their effects.
.TP 
.B wf.properties
points to the location where the.pegasusrc file is location.
.IP
Default is 
.IR $HOME/.pegasusrc .
.TP
.B wf.base.dir
points to the base directory, see
.I FILES AND 
.IR DIRECTORIES .
.TP
.B wf.tailstatd
points to the location where the 
.I tailstatd
workflow monitor is installed. Default is to use
.IR $PEGASUS_HOME/bin/tailstatd .
.SH "ENVIRONMENT VARIABLES"
.TP
.B PEGASUS_HOME
points to the installation base directory of your the PEGASUS execution
environment. 
.TP
.B PERL5LIB
is a path-like variable. It must include to the PEGASUS perl module
installation. 
.TP
.B PATH
should include the Condor binaries. 
.SH "EXAMPLES"
.LP
.nf 
\f(CB
TBD
\fP
.fi 
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR pegasus\-plan (1),
.BR tailstatd (1),
.BR pegasus\-submit\-dag (1).
.SH "AUTHORS"
.LP 
Jens\-S. Vöckler <voeckler at cs dot uchicago dot edu>
.PP 
PEGASUS
.B http://pegasus.isi.edu
.br 
GriPhyN
.BR http://www.griphyn.org/
