.\"  Copyright 2010-2011 University Of Southern California
.\"
.\" Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License");
.\" you may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\" You may obtain a copy of the License at
.\"
.\"  http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0
.\"
.\"  Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing,
.\"  software distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,
.\"  WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.
.\"  See the License for the specific language governing permissions and
.\" limitations under the License.
.\"
.\" 
.\" $Id$
.\" 
.\" Authors: Karan Vahi
.\" 
.\" 
.TH "pegasus-sc-converter" "1" "2.2.0" "PEGASUS Workflow Planner"
.SH "NAME"
pegasus-sc-converter \- A client to convert site catalog from one format to another format.

.SH "SYNOPSIS"
.B pegasus-sc-converter
 [\-Dprop  [..]]  \-i <list of input files> \-o <output file to write> 
        [\-I input format] [\-O <output format> [\-v] [\-V] [\-h]
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
The pegasus-sc-converter program is used to convert the site catalog from one format to another. 
.IP
Currently, the following formats of site catalog exist.
.TP
.B Text
This is a easy to read  multiline textual format.
.IP
A sample entry in this format looks as follows

.nf
\f(CB
site local{ 
sysinfo "INTEL32::LINUX"
gridlaunch "/nfs/software/pegasus/default/bin/kickstart"
workdir "/scratch"
gridftp "gsiftp://viz-login.isi.edu/scratch" "4.0.4"
universe transfer "viz-login.isi.edu/jobmanager-fork" "4.0.4"
universe vanilla "viz-login.isi.edu/jobmanager-pbs" "4.0.4"
lrc "rlsn://smarty.isi.edu"
profile  env "GLOBUS_LOCATION" "/nfs/software/globus/default"
profile  env "LD_LIBRARY_PATH" "/nfs/software/globus/default/lib"
profile  env "PEGASUS_HOME" "/nfs/software/pegasus/default"
}
\fP
.fi

.TP
.B XML
This is equivalent to the
.Text
format in XML. All information in the Text format can be represented in the XMLS format and vice-a-versa.
.IP
A sample entry in this format looks as follows

.nf
\f(CB
<site handle="local" gridlaunch="/nfs/software/pegasus/default/bin/kickstart" sysinfo="INTEL32::LINUX">
    <profile namespace="env" key="GLOBUS_LOCATION" >/nfs/software/globus/default</profile>
    <profile namespace="env" key="LD_LIBRARY_PATH" >/nfs/software/globus/default/lib</profile>
    <profile namespace="env" key="PEGASUS_HOME" >/nfs/software/pegasus/default</profile>
    <lrc url="rlsn://smarty.isi.edu" />
    <gridftp  url="gsiftp://viz-login.isi.edu" storage="/scratch" major="4" minor="0" patch="4"> 
    </gridftp>
    <jobmanager universe="transfer" url="viz-login.isi.edu/jobmanager-fork" major="4" minor="0" patch="4" />
    <jobmanager universe="vanilla" url="viz-login.isi.edu/jobmanager-pbs" major="4" minor="0" patch="4" />
    <workdirectory >/scratch</workdirectory>
  </site>
\fP
.fi
.IP
This format conforms to the  XML schema found at
.B http://pegasus.isi.edu/schema/sc-2.0.xsd

.TP
.B XML3
This format is a superset of previous formats.  All information about a site that can be described about a site can be described in this format. In addition, the user has finer grained control over the specification of directories and FTP servers that are accessible at the 
.B head node
and the 
.B worker node
.

.IP
A sample entry in this format looks as follows
.nf
\f(CB
<site  handle="local" arch="x86" os="LINUX">
		<grid  type="gt2" contact="viz-login.isi.edu/jobmanager-pbs" scheduler="PBS" jobtype="compute"/>
		<grid  type="gt2" contact="viz-login.isi.edu/jobmanager-fork" scheduler="Fork" jobtype="auxillary"/>
		<head-fs>
			<scratch>
				<shared>
					<file-server protocol="gsiftp" url="gsiftp://viz-login.isi.edu" mount-point="/scratch">
					</file-server>
					<internal-mount-point mount-point="/scratch" free-size="null" total-size="null"/>
				</shared>
			</scratch>
			<storage>
				<shared>
					<file-server protocol="gsiftp" url="gsiftp://viz-login.isi.edu" mount-point="/scratch">
					</file-server>
					<internal-mount-point mount-point="/scratch" free-size="null" total-size="null"/>
				</shared>
			</storage>
		</head-fs>
		<replica-catalog  type="LRC" url="rlsn://smarty.isi.edu">
		</replica-catalog>
		<profile namespace="env" key="GLOBUS_LOCATION" >/nfs/software/globus/default</profile>
		<profile namespace="env" key="LD_LIBRARY_PATH" >/nfs/software/globus/default/lib</profile>
		<profile namespace="env" key="PEGASUS_HOME" >/nfs/software/pegasus/default</profile>
	</site>
\fP
.fi
.IP
This format conforms to the  XML schema found at
.B http://pegasus.isi.edu/schema/sc-3.0.xsd


.SH "ARGUMENTS"
.TP 
.B \-i <comma separated list of input files>
.PD 0
.TP
.PD 1
.B \-\- input <comma separated list of input files>
The comma separated list of input files that need to be converted to a file in the format specified by
.oformat 
option.

.TP
.B \-o output file
.PD 0
.TP
.PD 1
.B \-\- output  the output file 
The output file to which the output needs to be written out to.

.TP 
.B Other Options

.TP
.B \-I input format
.PD 0
.TP
.PD 1
.B \-\-iformat  input format
The input format of the input files. 
.IP
Valid values for the input format are
.B XML
and
.B Text
.

.TP
.B \-O output format
.PD 0
.TP
.PD 1
.B \-\-oformat  input format
The output format of the output file.
.IP
Valid values for the output format is
.B XML3
.

.TP
.B \-v
.PD 0
.TP
.PD 1
.B \-\-verbose
increases the verbosity of messages about what is going on.
.IP
By default, all FATAL ERROR, ERROR , WARNINGS and INFO messages are
logged.

.TP
.B \-V
.PD 0
.TP
.PD 1
.B \-\-version
Displays the current version number of the  Pegasus Workflow Planner
Software.


.TP
.B \-h
.PD 0
.TP
.PD 1
.B \-\-help
Displays all the options to the
.B pegasus-plan
command.

.SH "EXAMPLE"
.nf 
\f(CB
 pegasus-sc-converter  -i sites.xml -I XML -o sites.xml.new  -O XML3 -vvvvv
\fP
.fi 
.SH "AUTHORS"
Karan Vahi <vahi at isi dot edu>
.br
Gaurang Mehta <gmehta at isi dot edu>
.PP 
.br 
PEGASUS
.B http://pegasus.isi.edu

