.\" This file or a portion of this file is licensed under the terms of
.\" the Globus Toolkit Public License, found in file GTPL, or at
.\" http://www.globus.org/toolkit/download/license.html. This notice
.  \" must
.\" appear in redistributions of this file, with or without
.  \" modification.
.\"
.\" Redistributions of this Software, with or without modification,
.  \" must
.\" reproduce the GTPL in: (1) the Software, or (2) the Documentation
.  \" or
.\" some other similar material which is provided with the Software
.  \" (if
.\" any).
.\"
.\" Copyright 1999-2004 University of Chicago and The University of
.\" Southern California. All rights reserved.
.\"
.\"
.\" $Id$
.\"
.\" Authors: Prasanth Thomas
.\"
.TH "pegasus-tc-converter" "1" "1.0.0" "PEGASUS Workflow Planner"
.SH "NAME"
pegasus-tc-converter \- A client to convert transformation catalog from one format to another format.

.SH "SYNOPSIS"
.B pegasus-tc-converter
 [\-Dprop  [..]] \-I <input format> \-O <output format>   
 		\-i <list of input files> \-o <output file to write> 
          [\-I input format] [\-O <output format>
          [\-N <database user name>] [\-P <database user password>] [\-U <database url>] [\-H <database host>] 
          [\-v] [\-V] [\-h]
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
The tc-convert program is used to convert the transformation catalog from one format to another. 
.IP
Currently, the following formats of transformation catalog exist.
.TP
.B Text
This is a easy to read  multi line textual format.
.IP
A sample entry in this format looks as follows

.nf
\f(CB
tr example::keg:1.0 {
        site isi {
        profile env "JAVA_HOME" "/bin/java.1.6"
        pfn "/path/to/keg"
        arch  "x86"
        os    "linux"
        osrelease "fc"
        osversion "4"
        type "installed"
    }
}
\fP
.fi

.TP
.B File
This is a tuple based format which contains 6 columns.
.IP
#RESOURCE   LFN         PFN      TYPE      SYSINFO      PROFILES
.br 
#
.br
.IP
A sample entry in this format looks as follows

.nf
\f(CB
isi	example::keg:1.0	/path/to/keg	INSTALLED	INTEL32::LINUX:fc_4:	env::JAVA_HOME="/bin/java.1.6"
\fP
.fi

.TP
.B Database
Only MySQL is supported for the time being. 
.

.SH "ARGUMENTS"
.TP
.B \-I input format
.PD 0
.TP
.PD 1
.B \-\-iformat  input format
The input format of the input files. 
.IP
Valid values for the input format are
.B File,
.B Text
and
.B Database
.

.TP
.B \-O output format
.PD 0
.TP
.PD 1
.B \-\-oformat  input format
The output format of the output file.
.IP
Valid values for the output format are
.B File,
.B Text
and
.B Database
.

.TP 
.B \-i <comma separated list of input files>
.PD 0
.TP
.PD 1
.B \-\- input <comma separated list of input files>
The comma separated list of input files that need to be converted to a file in the format specified by
.oformat 
option.

.TP
.B \-o output file
.PD 0
.TP
.PD 1
.B \-\- output  the output file 
The output file to which the output needs to be written out to.


.TP 
.B Other Options

.TP
.B \-N
.PD 0
.TP
.PD 1
.B \-\-db-user-name
The database user name.

.TP
.B \-P
.PD 0
.TP
.PD 1
.B \-\-db-user-pwd
The database user password.

.TP
.B \-U
.PD 0
.TP
.PD 1
.B \-\-db-url
The database url.

.TP
.B \-H
.PD 0
.TP
.PD 1
.B \-\-db-host
The database host.

.TP
.B \-v
.PD 0
.TP
.PD 1
.B \-\-verbose
increases the verbosity of messages about what is going on.
.IP
By default, all FATAL ERROR, ERROR , WARNINGS and INFO messages are
logged.

.TP
.B \-V
.PD 0
.TP
.PD 1
.B \-\-version
Displays the current version number of the  Pegasus Workflow Planner
Software.


.TP
.B \-h
.PD 0
.TP
.PD 1
.B \-\-help
Displays all the options to the
.B pegasus-plan
command.

.SH "EXAMPLE"
.TP
Text to file format conversion :-
.nf 
\f(CB
 pegasus-tc-converter  -i tc.data -I File -o tc.txt  -O Text -vvvvv
\fP
.fi 
.TP
File to Database(new) format conversion  :-
.nf 
\f(CB
 pegasus-tc-converter  -i tc.data -I File -N mysql_user -P mysql_pwd -U jdbc:mysql://localhost:3306/tc -H localhost  -O Database -vvvvv
\fP
.fi 
.TP
Database(existing specified in properties file) to text format conversion  :-
.nf 
\f(CB
 pegasus-tc-converter  -I Database -o tc.txt -O Text -vvvvv
\fP
.fi 
.SH "AUTHORS"
Prasanth Thomas 
.PP 
.br 
PEGASUS
.B http://pegasus.isi.edu

