.\"  Copyright 2010-2011 University Of Southern California
.\"
.\" Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License");
.\" you may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\" You may obtain a copy of the License at
.\"
.\"  http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0
.\"
.\"  Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing,
.\"  software distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,
.\"  WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.
.\"  See the License for the specific language governing permissions and
.\" limitations under the License.
.\" Southern California. All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" $Id$
.\"
.\" Authors: Prasanth Thomas
.\"
.TH "pegasus-plots" "1" "1.0.0" "PEGASUS Workflow Planner"
.SH "NAME"
pegasus-plots \- A tool to generate graphs and charts to visualize workflow run.

.SH "SYNOPSIS"
.B pegasus-plots <submit directory>
[\-h|\-\-help]
[\-o|\-\-output <output directory>] 
[\-c|\-\-conf <property file path>]
[\-m|\-\-max_graph_nodes max_value]
[\-p|\-\-plotting_level level_str]
[\-l|\-\-log_level level_str] 

.SH "DESCRIPTION"
pegasus-plots generates graphs and charts to visualize workflow run. It generates workflow execution Gantt chart, job over time chart, dax and dag graph. It uses executable \'dot\' to generate graphs. pegasus-plots looks for the executable in your path and generates graphs based on it\'s availability .

.SH "ARGUMENTS"

.TP
.B \-h
.PD 0
.TP
.PD 1
.B \-\-help 
Prints a usage summary with all the available command-line options.

.TP
.B \-o <output directory>
.PD 0
.TP
.PD 1
.B \-\-output  <output directory>
Writes the output to the given directory 

.TP
.B \-c
.PD 0
.TP
.PD 1
.B \-\-conf  <property file path>
The properties file to use. This option overrides all other property files.

.TP
.B \-m
.PD 0
.TP
.PD 1
.B \-\-max_graph_nodes  max_value
 Maximum limit on the number of tasks/jobs in the dax/dag upto which the graph should be generated;The default value is 100


.TP
.B \-p
.PD 0
.TP
.PD 1
.B \-\-plotting_level  level_str
Specifies the charts and graphs to generate. Valid levels are: all,all_charts, all_graphs, dax_graph,dag_graph,gantt_chart,host_chart; Default is all_charts.
Valid values for the plotting_level are
.RS
.B all : 
generates all charts and graphs
.RE
.RS
.B all_charts : 
generates all charts
.RE
.RS
.B all_graphs : 
generates all graphs
.RE
.RS
.B dax_graph : 
generates dax graph
.RE
.RS
.B dag_graph : 
generates dag graph
.RE
.RS
.B gantt_chart : 
generates the workflow execution Gantt chart
.RE
.RS
.B host_chart : 
generates the host over time chart
.RE

.TP
.B \-l
.PD 0
.TP
.PD 1
.B \-\-log_level level_str
Specifies the log level.Valid levels are: debug,info,warning,error; Default is info.


.SH "EXAMPLE"
.TP
Runs pegasus-plots and writes the output to the given directory :\-
.nf 
\f(CB
 pegasus-plots  -o /scratch/plot /scratch/grid-setup/run0001
\fP
.fi 
 
.SH "AUTHORS"
Prasanth Thomas 
.PP 
.br 
PEGASUS
.B http://pegasus.isi.edu

