.\"  Copyright 2010-2011 University Of Southern California
.\"
.\" Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License");
.\" you may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\" You may obtain a copy of the License at
.\"
.\"  http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0
.\"
.\"  Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing,
.\"  software distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,
.\"  WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.
.\"  See the License for the specific language governing permissions and
.\" limitations under the License.
.\"
.\"
.\" $Id$
.\"
.TH "pegasus-submit-dag" "1" "1.3.9" "GriPhyN PEGASUS Planner"
.SH "NAME"
pegasus-submit-dag \- wraps 
.B condor_submit_dag
with reasonable throttles.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B pegasus-submit-dag [-Dprops] [options] dagfile
.SH DESCRIPTION
This small program wraps the 
.B condor_submit_dag
program to submit DAGs to Condor. While doing so, it institutes 
reasonable defaults from PEGASUS property files to throttle DAGMan. 
By default, many of DAGman's options are not throttled and thus
can cause havoc on the submit host under certain conditions. 
.SH ARGUMENTS
.TP
.B \-Dprop
The -D options allows an experienced user to override certain properties
which influence the program execution, among them the default location of
the user's properties file and the PEGASUS home location. One may set several
CLI properties by giving this option multiple times.
.I The -D option(s) must be the first option on the command line. 
CLI properties take precedence over the file-based properties of the
same key. 
.IP
Please refer to the
.B PROPERTIES 
section below.
.TP
.B \-d level
.PD 0
.TP
.PD 1
.B \-\-debug level
The debug level specifies the amount of verbosity accompanying actions.
.IP
By default, maximimum verbosity is chosen (value of -1). 
.TP
.B \-e c_d
.PD 0
.TP
.PD 1
.B \-\-dagman c_d
This option permits to specify an alternate location of a 
.B condor_dagman
binary. This binary is the actual application constituting DAGMan. This
option is mostly for developers who need to override the system default
DAGMan. 
.IP
By default, the DAGman from the Condor installation is used.
.TP
.B \-j jobs
.PD 0
.TP
.PD 1
.B \-\-maxjobs jobs
This option permits to limit the number of jobs that DAGman keeps
submitted to Condor at any one time. If there are more runnable (ready)
jobs than this number, remaining jobs are run as slots become free. 
.IP
By default, there is no limit on the number of jobs submittable to
Condor. 
.IP
See also property
.IR pegasus.dagman.maxjobs .
.TP
.B \-n x
.PD 0
.TP
.PD 1
.B \-\-notify x
This option permits notifications at the end of a workflow. While DAGMan
usually sends notifications, we don't like that feature most of the
time. Thus, the wrapper disables notification. Levels of notification
are 
.BR error ,
.B complete
and
.BR never .
.IP
By default, notifications are suppressed. 
.IP
See also property
.IR pegasus.dagmax.notify .
.TP
.B \-P N
.PD 0
.TP
.PD 1
.B \-\-maxpre N
This option limits the number of PRE scripts that are simultaneously
runnable. While DAGman does not impose a limit, we find that about 20
simultaneous complex PRE scripts are as many as a host can handle. 
.IP
By default, the PRE scripts are throttled to 20.
.IP
See also property
.IR pegasus.dagman.maxpre .
.TP
.B \-p N
.PD 0
.TP
.PD 1
.B \-\-maxpost N
This option limits the number of POST scripts that are simultaneously
runnable. While DAGman does not impose a limit, we find that about 20
simultaneous complex POST scripts are as many as a host can handle. 
.IP
By default, the POST scripts are throttled to 20.
.IP
See also property
.IR pegasus.dagman.maxpost .
.TP
.PD 0
.B \-v
.PD 0
.TP
.PD 1
.B \-\-verbose
This option tells DAGman to enter its verbose mode. In verbose mode, it
gives more error messages, and it generally tells more about what it
currently is attempting to do.
.IP
By default, verbose mode is not entered. 
.IP
See also property
.IR pegasus.dagman.verbose .
.TP
.PD 0
.B \-V
.TP
.PD 1
.B \-\-version
displays the version of the GriPhyN PEGASUS Planner you are using.
.SH "RETURN VALUE"
The program will usually return with success (0). If problems were
encountered, an exit code of 1 will follow the error message. If the 
.B condor_submit_dag
could not be called, because the 
.B exec
system call failed, an exit code of 127 is returned. 
.SH "ENVIRONMENT VARIABLES"
.TP
.B PEGASUS_HOME
points to the installation base directory of your the PEGASUS execution
environment. 
.TP
.B PERL5LIB
is a path-like variable. It must include to the PEGASUS perl module
installation. 
.TP
.B PATH
should include the Condor binaries. 
.SH "PROPERTIES"
A number of properties can be read from the PEGASUS property files.
Currently, the Euryale property file is included in the process.
Property precedence rules apply. If your property files mention one of
the following properties, they will impact the way this wrapper
determines defaults.
.TP
.B pegasus.dagman.maxpre
If set, it throttles the maximum number of PRE scripts that can run
simultaneously. A value of 0 disables throttling. Our default is 20.
.TP
.B pegasus.dagman.maxpost
If set, it throttles the maximum number of POST scripts that can run
simultaneously. A value of 0 disables throttling. Our default is 20. 
.TP
.B pegasus.dagman.maxjobs
If set, it throttles the maximum number that DAGMan has submitted to
Condor at any one time. A value of 0 disables throttling. Our default
does not throttle this value. 
.TP
.B pegasus.dagman.notify
If set, this is the notification level, when to send an email to the
submitting user about certain DAGman final events. Our default is 
.IR NEVER .
.TP
.B pegasus.dagman.verbose
If set, DAGMan enters verbose submit mode. Our default is no verbosity. 
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR pegasus\-plan (1),
.BR pegasus\-run (1),
.BR tailstatd (1).
.SH "AUTHORS"
Jens-S. Vöckler <voeckler at cs dot uchicago dot edu>,
.\"Jens-S. V\*:ockler 
.br
Gaurang Mehta <gmehta at isi dot edu>,
.PP
Chimera
.B http://pegasus.isi.edu
.br
GriPhyN
.BR http://www.griphyn.org/
