.\"  Copyright 2010-2011 University Of Southern California
.\"
.\" Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License");
.\" you may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\" You may obtain a copy of the License at
.\"
.\"  http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0
.\"
.\"  Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing,
.\"  software distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,
.\"  WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.
.\"  See the License for the specific language governing permissions and
.\" limitations under the License.
.\" Southern California. All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" $Id$
.\"
.\" Authors: Prasanth Thomas
.\"
.TH "pegasus-plot" "1" "1.0.0" "PEGASUS Workflow Planner"
.SH "NAME"
pegasus-plot \- A tool to generate graphs and charts to visualize workflow execution.

.SH "SYNOPSIS"
.B pegasus-plot <submit directory>
[\-o|\-\-output <output directory>] 
[\-G|\-\-gnatt\-chart\-title workflow execution Gnatt chart title] [\-H|\-\-host\-chart\-title host over time chart title]
[\-S|\-\-use\-site site information handle]
[\-K|\-\-kickstart]
[\-O|\-\-omit]
[\-m|\-\-monitord] 
[\-k|\-\-keep]
[\-v|\-\-verbose] 
[\-h|\-\-help] 
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
pegasus-plot generates graphs and charts to visualize workflow execution. It generates workflow execution Gantt chart, job over time chart, dax and dag graph. It uses executables \'ploticus\',\'convert\' and \'dot\' to generate graphs and charts. Tool looks for these executable in your path and generates graphs and charts based on it\'s availability .

.SH "ARGUMENTS"
.TP
.B \-o <output directory>
.PD 0
.TP
.PD 1
.B \-\-output  <output directory>
Writes the output to the given directory 

.TP
.B \-G
.PD 0
.TP
.PD 1
.B \-\-gnatt\-chart\-title  workflow execution Gnatt chart title
The title of the  Gantt workflow execution chart.



.TP
.B \-H
.PD 0
.TP
.PD 1
.B \-\-host\-chart\-title  host over time chart title
The title of the host over time chart.


.TP
.B \-S
.PD 0
.TP
.PD 1
.B \-\-use\-site  site information handle
Specifies where to get the site information.
.IP
Valid values for the use\-site are
.B 0: use gatekeeper host (default)
.B  1: use site handle
and
.B 2:use reported workernode handle

.TP
.B \-K
.PD 0
.TP
.PD 1
.B \-\-kickstart
Parallelize host over time chart with kickstart intervals, default is Condor.

.TP
.B \-O
.PD 0
.TP
.PD 1
.B \-\-omit
Omit the gridstart gray boxes from the host over time chart, default draw.

.TP
.B \-m
.PD 0
.TP
.PD 1
.B \-\-monitord
Invokes pegasus-monitord beforre running pegasus-plot.

.TP
.B \-k
.PD 0
.TP
.PD 1
.B \-\-keep
Keeps the log created by the pegasus-plot run.

.TP
.B \-v
.PD 0
.TP
.PD 1
.B \-\-verbose
Enters the verbose mode.

.TP
.B \-h
.PD 0
.TP
.PD 1
.B \-\-help
Displays all the options to the
.B pegasus-plot
command.

.SH "ENVIRONMENT VARIABLES"
.TP
.B PEGASUS_HOME
points to the installation base directory of your the PEGASUS execution
environment. 

.SH "EXAMPLE"
.TP
Runs pegasus-plot and writes the output to the given directory :\-
.nf 
\f(CB
 pegasus-plot  -o /scratch/plot /scratch/grid-setup/run0001
\fP
.fi 
 
.SH "AUTHORS"
Prasanth Thomas 
.PP 
.br 
PEGASUS
.B http://pegasus.isi.edu

