.\"  Copyright 2010-2011 University Of Southern California
.\"
.\" Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License");
.\" you may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\" You may obtain a copy of the License at
.\"
.\"  http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0
.\"
.\"  Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing,
.\"  software distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,
.\"  WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.
.\"  See the License for the specific language governing permissions and
.\" limitations under the License.
.\"
.\"
.\"
.\" $Id$
.\"
.\" Authors: Jens-S. Vöckler, Yong Zhao, Karan Vahi
.\"
.TH "pegasus\-rc\-client" "1" "3.1.0" "Pegasus Workflow Planner"
.SH NAME
pegasus\-rc\-client \- shell client for replica implementations
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B pegasus\-rc\-client
[\-Dprop [...]] [\-c fn] [\-p k=v] [[\-f fn]|[\-i|-d fn]|[cmd [args]]  
.br
.B pegasus\-rc\-client
[\-c fn] \-V
.SH DESCRIPTION
The shell interface to replica catalog implementations is a prototype. 
It determines from various property setting which class implements the
replica manager interface, and loads that driver at run-time. Some 
commands depend on the implementation. 
.PP
.SH ARGUMENTS
Any option will be displayed with its long options synonym(s).
.TP
.PD 0
.B \-Dprop value
The \-D options allows an experienced user to override certain properties which influence the program execution, 
among them the default location of the user's properties file and the PEGASUS home location. 
One may set several CLI properties by giving this option multiple times. The -D option(s) must be the first option 
on the command line. A CLI property take precedence over the properties file property of the same key.
.TP
.PD 0
.B \-c fn
.TP
.PD 1
.B \-\-conf fn
path to the property file
.TP
.PD 0
.B \-f fn
.TP
.PD 1
.B \-\-file fn
The optional input file argument permits to enter non-interactive bulk
mode. If this option is not present, replica manager specific commands
should be issued on the command-line. The special filename hyphen (\-)
can be used to read from pipes.
.IP
Default is to use an interactive interface reading from 
.IR stdin .
.TP
.PD 0
.B \-i fn
.TP
.PD 1
.B \-\-insert fn
The optional input file argument permits insertion of entries from the 
Replica Catalog in a bulk mode, wherever supported by the underlying
implementation. This is highly, useful when interfacing with the
Globus RLS as the backend, and one wants to inserts millions of
entries in it.

.IP
Each line in the file denotes one mapping of the format
.B <lfn> <pfn> [k=v [..]]
.TP
.PD 0
.B \-d fn
.TP
.PD 1
.B \-\-delete fn
The optional input file argument permits deletion of entries from the 
Replica Catalog in a bulk mode, wherever supported by the underlying
implementation. This is highly, useful when interfacing with the
Globus RLS as the backend, and one wants to delete millions of
entries from it.

.IP
Each line in the file denotes one mapping of the format
.B <lfn> <pfn> [k=v [..]]
.TP
.PD 0
.B \-p k=v
.TP
.PD 1
.B \-\-pref k=v
This option may be specified multiple times. Each specification
populates instance preferences. Preferences control the extend of log
information, or the output format string to use in listings. 
.IP
The keys 
.B format
and
.B level
are recognized as of this writing. 
.IP
There are no defaults.
.TP
.B cmd [args]
If not in file-driven mode, a single command can be specified with its
arguments. 
.IP
Default is to use interactive mode. 
.TP
.PD 0
.B \-V
.TP
.PD 1
.B \-\-version
displays the version of the GriPhyN PEGASUS Planner you are using.
.SH "RETURN VALUE"
Regular and planned program terminations will result in an exit code of 0.
Abnormal termination will result in a non-zero exit code.
.SH FILES
.TP
.B $PEGASUS_HOME/etc/properties
contains the basic properties with all configurable options.
.TP
.B $HOME/.pegasusrc
contains the basic properties with all configurable options.
.TP
.B pegasus.jar
contains all compiled Java bytecode to run the replica manager. 
.SH "ENVIRONMENT VARIABLES"
.TP
.B $PEGASUS_HOME
is the suggested base directory of your the execution environment.
.TP
.B $JAVA_HOME
should be set and point to a valid location to start the intended Java
virtual machine as
.IR $JAVA_HOME/bin/java .
.TP
.B $CLASSPATH
should be set to contain all necessary files for the execution environment.
Please make sure that your 
.I CLASSPATH
includes pointer to the replica implementation required jar files.
.SH "PROPERTIES"
The complete branch of properties 
.I pegasus.catalog.replica
including itself are interpreted by the prototype. While the 
.I pegasus.catalog.replica
property itself steers the backend to connect to, any meaning of
branched keys is dependent on the backend. The same key may have
different meanings for different backends. 
.TP
.B pegasus.catalog.replica
determines the name of the implementing class to load at run-time. If
the class resides in 
.I org.griphyn.common.catalog.replica
no prefix is required. Otherwise, the fully qualified class name must be
specified.
.TP
.B pegasus.catalog.replica.url
is used by the RLS|LRC implementations. It determines the RLI / LRC
url to use.
.TP
.B pegasus.catalog.replica.file
is used by the SimpleFile implementation. It specifies the path to the
file to use as the backend for the catalog.
.TP
.B pegasus.catalog.replica.db.driver
is used by a simple rDBMs implementation. The string is the
fully-qualified class name of the JDBC driver used by the rDBMS
implementer. 
.TP
.B pegasus.catalog.replica.db.url
is the jdbc url to use to connect to the database.
.TP
.B pegasus.catalog.replica.db.user
is used by a simple rDBMS implementation. It constitutes the database
user account that contains the 
.I RC_LFN
and
.I RC_ATTR
tables.
.TP
.B pegasus.catalog.replica.db.password
is used by a simple rDBMS implementation. It constitutes the database
user account that contains the 
.I RC_LFN
and
.I RC_ATTR
tables.
.TP
.B pegasus.catalog.replica.chunk.size
is used by the pegasus-rc-client for the bulk insert and delete
operations. The value determines the number of lines that are read in
at a time, and worked upon at together.
.SH "COMMANDS"
The commandline tool provides a simplified shell-wrappable interface to
manage a replica catalog backend. The commands can either be specified
in a file in bulk mode, in a pipe, or as additional arguments to the
invocation.
.P
Note that you must escape special characters from the shell.
.TP
.B help
displays a small resume of the commands.
.TP
.PD 0
.B exit
.TP
.PD 1
.B quit
should only be used in interactive mode to exit the interactive mode. 
.TP
.B clear
drops all contents from the backend. Use with special care!
.TP
.B insert <lfn> <pfn> [k=v [..]]
inserts a given 
.B lfn 
and 
.BR pfn , 
and an optional 
.B site 
string into the backend. If the site is not specified, a 
.I null
value is inserted for the 
.BR site .
.TP 
.B delete <lfn> <pfn> [k=v [..]]
removes a triple of
.BR lfn ,
.B pfn
and, optionally, 
.B site
from the replica backend. If the site was not specified, all matches of
the 
.B lfn
.B pfn
pairs will be removed, regardless of the 
.BR site .
.TP
.B lookup <lfn> [<lfn> [..]]
retrieves one or more mappings for a given 
.B lfn
from the replica backend. 
.TP
.B remove <lfn> [<lfn> [..]]
removes all mappings for each 
.B lfn
from the replica backend. 
.TP 
.B list [lfn <pat>] [pfn <pat>] [<name> <pat>]
obtains all matches from the replica backend. If no arguments were
specified, all contents of the replica backend are matched. You must use
the word
.BR lfn ,
.B pfn
or
.B <name>
before specifying a pattern. The pattern is meaningful only to the
implementation. Thus, a SQL implementation may chose to permit SQL
wild-card characters. A memory-resident service may chose to interpret
the pattern as regular expression. 
.TP 
.B set [var [value]]
sets an internal variable that controls the behavior of the front-end.
With no arguments, all possible behaviors are displayed. With one
argument, just the matching behavior is listed. With two arguments, the
matching behavior is set to the value. 
.SH "EXAMPLE"
.nf
\f(CB
to be done
\fP
.fi
.SH "DATABASE SCHEMA"
.LP
The tables are set up as part of the PEGASUS database setup. The files
concerned with the database have a suffix
.BR -rc.sql .
.SH "RESTRICTIONS"
Plenty. 
.SH "AUTHORS"
Karan Vahi          <vahi at isi dot edu>
.br
Gaurang Mehta       <gmetha at isi dot edu>
.br
.\" Jens-S. Vöckler <voeckler at cs dot uchicago dot edu>,
Jens-S. V\(:ockler    <voeckler at isi dot dot edu>
.PP
PEGASUS     -
.BR http://pegasus.isi.edu/
