.\" This file or a portion of this file is licensed under the terms of
.\" the Globus Toolkit Public License, found in file GTPL, or at
.\" http://www.globus.org/toolkit/download/license.html. This notice must
.\" appear in redistributions of this file, with or without modification.
.\"
.\" Redistributions of this Software, with or without modification, must
.\" reproduce the GTPL in: (1) the Software, or (2) the Documentation or
.\" some other similar material which is provided with the Software (if
.\" any).
.\"
.\" Copyright 1999-2004 University of Chicago and The University of
.\" Southern California. All rights reserved.
.\"
.\"
.\" $Id: rc-client.1,v 1.3 2006/06/27 23:09:19 vahi Exp $
.\"
.\" Authors: Jens-S. Vöckler, Yong Zhao, Karan Vahi
.\"
.TH "rc\-client" "1" "1.4.5" "GriPhyN Virtual Data System"
.SH NAME
rc\-client \- shell client for replica implementations
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B rc\-client
[\-Dprop [..]] [\-p k=v] [[\-f fn]|[\-i|-d fn]|[cmd [args]]  
.br
.B rc\-client
[\-Dprop [..]] \-V
.SH DESCRIPTION
The shell interface to replica catalog implementations is a prototype. 
It determines from various property setting which class implements the
replica manager interface, and loads that driver at run-time. Some 
commands depend on the implementation. 
.PP
.SH ARGUMENTS
Any option will be displayed with its long options synonym(s).
.TP
.B \-Dprop
The -D options allows an experienced user to override certain properties
which influence the program execution, among them the default location of
the user's properties file and the VDS home location. One may set several
CLI properties by giving this option multiple times.
.I The -D option(s) must be the first option on the command line. 
A CLI property take precedence over the properties file property 
of the same key.
.TP
.PD 0
.B \-f fn
.TP
.PD 1
.B \-\-file fn
The optional input file argument permits to enter non-interactive bulk
mode. If this option is not present, replica manager specific commands
should be issued on the command-line. The special filename hyphen (\-)
can be used to read from pipes.
.IP
Default is to use an interactive interface reading from 
.IR stdin .
.TP
.PD 0
.B \-i fn
.TP
.PD 1
.B \-\-insert fn
The optional input file argument permits insertion of entries from the 
Replica Catalog in a bulk mode, wherever supported by the underlying
implementation. This is highly, useful when interfacing with the
Globus RLS as the backend, and one wants to inserts millions of
entries in it.

.IP
Each line in the file denotes one mapping of the format
.B <lfn> <pfn> [k=v [..]]
.TP
.PD 0
.B \-p k=v
.TP
.PD 1
.B \-\-delete fn
The optional input file argument permits deletion of entries from the 
Replica Catalog in a bulk mode, wherever supported by the underlying
implementation. This is highly, useful when interfacing with the
Globus RLS as the backend, and one wants to delete millions of
entries from it.

.IP
Each line in the file denotes one mapping of the format
.B <lfn> <pfn> [k=v [..]]
.TP
.PD 0
.B \-p k=v
.TP
.PD 1
.B \-\-pref k=v
This option may be specified multiple times. Each specification
populates instance preferences. Preferences control the extend of log
information, or the output format string to use in listings. 
.IP
The keys 
.B format
and
.B level
are recognized as of this writing. 
.IP
There are no defaults.
.TP
.B cmd [args]
If not in file-driven mode, a single command can be specified with its
arguments. 
.IP
Default is to use interactive mode. 
.TP
.PD 0
.B \-V
.TP
.PD 1
.B \-\-version
displays the version of the GriPhyN Virtual Data System you are using.
.SH "RETURN VALUE"
Regular and planned program terminations will result in an exit code of 0.
Abnormal termination will result in a non-zero exit code.
.SH FILES
.TP
.B $VDS_HOME/etc/properties
contains the basic properties with all configurable options.
.TP
.B $HOME/.vdsrc
contains the basic properties with all configurable options.
.TP
.B gvds.jar
contains all compiled Java bytecode to run the replica manager. 
.SH "ENVIRONMENT VARIABLES"
.TP
.B $VDS_HOME
is the suggested base directory of your the execution environment.
.TP
.B $JAVA_HOME
should be set and point to a valid location to start the intended Java
virtual machine as
.IR $JAVA_HOME/bin/java .
.TP
.B $CLASSPATH
should be set to contain all necessary files for the execution environment.
Please make sure that your 
.I CLASSPATH
includes pointer to the replica implementation required jar files.
.SH "PROPERTIES"
The complete branch of properties 
.I vds.rc
including itself are interpreted by the prototype. While the 
.I vds.rc
property itself steers the backend to connect to, any meaning of
branched keys is dependent on the backend. The same key may have
different meanings for different backends. 
.TP
.B vds.rc
determines the name of the implementing class to load at run-time. If
the class resides in 
.I org.griphyn.common.catalog
no prefix is required. Otherwise, the fully qualified class name must be
specified. 
.TP
.B vds.rc.driver
is used by a simple rDBMs implementation. The string is the
fully-qualified class name of the JDBC driver used by the rDBMS
implementer. 
.TP
.B vds.rc.url
is used by a simple rDBMS implementation. The string determines the JDBC
contact URI to use. 
.TP
.B vds.rc.user
is used by a simple rDBMS implementation. It constitutes the database
user account that contains the 
.I RC_LFN
and
.I RC_ATTR
tables.
.TP
.B vds.rc.password
is used by a simple rDBMS implementation. It constitutes the database
user account that contains the 
.I RC_LFN
and
.I RC_ATTR
tables.
.TP
.B vds.rc.chunk.size
is used by the rc-client for the bulk insert and delete
operations. The value determines the number of lines that are read in
at a time, and worked upon at together.
.TP
.B vds.rc.*
are other keys a JDBC driver may make use of. The keys are
driver-specific. 
.SH "COMMANDS"
The commandline tool provides a simplified shell-wrappable interface to
manage a replica catalog backend. The commands can either be specified
in a file in bulk mode, in a pipe, or as additional arguments to the
invocation.
.P
Note that you must escape special characters from the shell.
.TP
.B help
displays a small resume of the commands.
.TP
.PD 0
.B exit
.TP
.PD 1
.B quit
should only be used in interactive mode to exit the interactive mode. 
.TP
.B clear
drops all contents from the backend. Use with special care!
.TP
.B insert <lfn> <pfn> [k=v [..]]
inserts a given 
.B lfn 
and 
.BR pfn , 
and an optional 
.B site 
string into the backend. If the site is not specified, a 
.I null
value is inserted for the 
.BR site .
.TP 
.B delete <lfn> <pfn> [k=v [..]]
removes a triple of
.BR lfn ,
.B pfn
and, optionally, 
.B site
from the replica backend. If the site was not specified, all matches of
the 
.B lfn
.B pfn
pairs will be removed, regardless of the 
.BR site .
.TP
.B lookup <lfn> [<lfn> [..]]
retrieves one or more mappings for a given 
.B lfn
from the replica backend. 
.TP
.B remove <lfn> [<lfn> [..]]
removes all mappings for each 
.B lfn
from the replica backend. 
.TP 
.B list [lfn <pat>] [pfn <pat>] [<name> <pat>]
obtains all matches from the replica backend. If no arguments were
specified, all contents of the replica backend are matched. You must use
the word
.BR lfn ,
.B pfn
or
.B <name>
before specifying a pattern. The pattern is meaningful only to the
implementation. Thus, a SQL implementation may chose to permit SQL
wild-card characters. A memory-resident service may chose to interpret
the pattern as regular expression. 
.TP 
.B set [var [value]]
sets an internal variable that controls the behavior of the front-end.
With no arguments, all possible behaviors are displayed. With one
argument, just the matching behavior is listed. With two arguments, the
matching behavior is set to the value. 
.SH "EXAMPLE"
.nf
\f(CB
to be done
\fP
.fi
.SH "DATABASE SCHEMA"
.LP
The tables are set up as part of the VDS database setup. The files
concerned with the database have a suffix
.BR -rc.sql .
.SH "RESTRICTIONS"
Plenty. 
.SH "AUTHORS"
Gaurang Mehta       <gmetha at isi dot edu>
.br
Karan Vahi          <vahi at isi dot edu>
.br
.\" Jens-S. Vöckler <voeckler at cs dot uchicago dot edu>,
Jens-S. V\(:ockler    <voeckler at cs dot uchicago dot edu>
.br
Yong Zhao           <yongzh at cs dot uchicago dot edu>
.PP
VDS     -
.BR http://vds.isi.edu/
.br
GriPhyN -
.BR http://www.griphyn.org/
