.\" This file or a portion of this file is licensed under the terms of
.\" the Globus Toolkit Public License, found in file GTPL, or at
.\" http://www.globus.org/toolkit/download/license.html. This notice must
.\" appear in redistributions of this file, with or without modification.
.\"
.\" Redistributions of this Software, with or without modification, must
.\" reproduce the GTPL in: (1) the Software, or (2) the Documentation or
.\" some other similar material which is provided with the Software (if
.\" any).
.\"
.\" Copyright 1999-2004 University of Chicago and The University of
.\" Southern California. All rights reserved.
.\"
.\"
.\" $Id$
.\"
.\" Authors: Jens-S. Vöckler, Yong Zhao
.\"
.\"
.TH "show\-properties" "1" "1.3.9" "GriPhyN PEGASUS Planner"
.SH NAME
show\-properties \- show PEGASUS properties after everything was parsed
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B show\-properties
[\-Dprop [..]] [\-c] [\-u]
.br
.B show\-properties
[\-Dprop [..]] \-V
.SH DESCRIPTION
The property testing permits to show the effective property settings
after all property sources were parsed. This permits debugging of PEGASUS
properties, as it shows the effective properties. 
.SH ARGUMENTS
.TP
.B \-Dprop
The -D options allows an experienced user to override certain properties
which influence the program execution, among them the default location of
the user's properties file and the PEGASUS home location. One may set several
CLI properties by giving this option multiple times.
.I The -D option(s) must be the first option on the command line. 
A CLI property take precedence over the properties file property 
of the same key.
.TP
.B \-c
.PD 0
.TP
.PD 1
.B \-\-concise
This option permits to list the properties in a concise format, using
simply an equals (=) sign between property key and property value,
without adding any other linear whitespaces. 
.IP
Default is to left-adjust keys and values into two columns. 
.TP
.B \-u
.PD 0
.TP
.PD 1
.B \-\-unsorted
The properties are by default displayed sorted by their key, as it
makes finding a particular property easier. However, using this option,
one can print properties in an unsorted order. There is no speed gain
with this options. 
.IP
Default is sort the output by the property key. 
.TP
.B \-V
.PD 0
.TP
.PD 1
.B \-\-version
displays the version of the GriPhyN PEGASUS Planner you are using.
.TP
.B \-\-verbose
increases the verbosity of messages about what is going on. This option
may be defunct in 
.IR show\-properties .
.SH "RETURN VALUE"
Regular program terminations will result in an exit code of 0.
Abnormal termination will result in a non-zero exit code.
.SH FILES
.TP
.B $PEGASUS_HOME/etc/properties
contains the basic system properties with all configurable options.
.TP
.B $HOME/.pegasusrc
contains the basic user properties with all configurable options.
.TP
.B pegasus.jar
contains all compiled Java bytecode to run the GriPhyN virtual data system.
.SH "ENVIRONMENT VARIABLES"
.TP
.B $PEGASUS_HOME
is the suggested base directory of your the execution environment.
.TP
.B $JAVA_HOME
should be set and point to a valid location to start the intended Java
virtual machine as
.IR $JAVA_HOME/bin/java .
.TP
.B $CLASSPATH
should be set to contain all necessary files for the execution environment.
Please make sure that your 
.I CLASSPATH
includes the Xerces 2.6 classes.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR pegasus-bug-report (1).
.SH AUTHORS
Jens-S. Vöckler <voeckler at cs dot uchicago dot edu>,
.\"Jens-S. V\*:ockler 
.br
Mike Wilde <wilde at mcs dot anl dot gov>,
.br
Yong Zhao <yongzh at cs dot uchicago dot edu>.
.PP
Chimera
.B http://pegasus.isi.edu
.br
GriPhyN
.BR http://www.griphyn.org/
