.\" This file or a portion of this file is licensed under the terms of
.\" the Globus Toolkit Public License, found in file GTPL, or at
.\" http://www.globus.org/toolkit/download/license.html. This notice must
.\" appear in redistributions of this file, with or without modification.
.\"
.\" Redistributions of this Software, with or without modification, must
.\" reproduce the GTPL in: (1) the Software, or (2) the Documentation or
.\" some other similar material which is provided with the Software (if
.\" any).
.\"
.\" Copyright 1999-2004 University of Chicago and The University of
.\" Southern California. All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" $Id$
.\"
.\" Authors: Jens-S. Vöckler, Yong Zhao
.\"
.\"
.TH vdlt2vdlx 1 "Mai, 3rd 2004"
.SH NAME
vdlt2vdlx \- converts VDLt into VDLx 
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B vdlt2vdlx 
[\-Dprop [..]] [\-n\~vdlns] [\-v\~version] in.vdl out.xml
.br
.B vdlt2vdlx
[\-Dprop [..]] [\-n\~vdlns] [\-v\~version] in.vdl > out.xml
.br
.B vdlt2vdlx
[\-Dprop [..] [\-n\~vdlns] [\-v\~version] < in.vdl > out.xml
.br
.B vdlt2vdlx
[\-Dprop [..] \-V
.SH DESCRIPTION
The translator converts the textual representation of VDL, called VDLt,
into the XML representation of VDL, called VDLx. The textual
representation is meant for human consumption and wall\-talk sessions.
The XML version is meant for machine consumption, data transfer and
computation.
.SH ARGUMENTS
.TP
.B \-Dprop
The -D options allows an experienced user to override certain properties
which influence the program execution, among them the default location of
the user's properties file and the VDS home location. One may set several
CLI properties by giving this option multiple times.
.I The -D option(s) must be the first option on the command line. 
A CLI property take precedence over the properties file property 
of the same key.
.TP
.B \-n vdlns
.PD 0
.TP
.PD 1
.B \-\-vdlns vdlns
.PD 0
.TP
.PD 1
.B \-\-ns vdlns
This parameter allows to set the value for the 
.I vdlns
attribute that is part of the generated definitions. The attribute will
become the default namespace of all enclosed definitions, unless they
set a namespace of their own.
.PP
By default, the 
.I vdlns
attribute is null, and will not be set in the output.
.TP
.B \-v version
.PD 0
.TP
.PD 1
.B \-\-vdlvs version
sets the version number of a definition. The version will become the
default version number of all  enclosed definitions, unless they
set a version of their own.
.PP
By default, the 
.I version
attribute is 1.0 to be backward compatible.
.TP
.B in.vdl
In the one or two argument form, the first argument specifies the 
file to read VDLt from. 
.IP
Default is to read from
.IR stdin .
.TP
.B out.xml
is the optional second argument to put the new definitions into. 
.IP
Default is to write to
.IR stdout .
.TP
.B \-V
.PD 0
.TP
.PD 1
.B \-\-version
displays the version of the GriPhyN Virtual Data System you are using.
.TP
.B \-\-verbose
increases the verbosity of messages protocolled. 
.SH "RETURN VALUE"
Regular and planned program terminations will result in an exit code of
0. Abnormal termination, e.g. on parsing errors, will result in a
non-zero exit code.
.SH FILES
.TP
.B $VDS_HOME/etc/vdl-1.23.xsd
is the suggested location of the latest XML schema to read the database.
.TP
.B $VDS_HOME/etc/properties
contains the system properties with all configurable options.
.TP
.B $HOME/.vdsrc
contains the user properties with all configurable options.
.TP
.B gvds.jar
contains all compiled Java bytecode to run the GriPhyN Virtual Data System.
.SH "ENVIRONMENT VARIABLES"
.TP
.B $VDS_HOME
is the suggested base directory of your the execution environment.
.TP
.B $JAVA_HOME
should be set and point to a valid location to start the intended Java
virtual machine as
.IR $JAVA_HOME/bin/java .
.TP
.B $CLASSPATH
should be set to contain all necessary files for the execution environment.
Please make sure that your 
.I CLASSPATH
includes the Xerces 2.6 classes.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR vdlx2vdlt (1),
.BR insertvdc (1).
.\".SH EXAMPLE
.SH RESTRICTIONS
Plenty. 
.SH AUTHORS
Jens-S. Vöckler <voeckler at cs dot uchicago dot edu>,
.\"Jens-S. V\*:ockler 
.br
Mike Wilde <wilde at mcs dot anl dot gov>,
.br
Yong Zhao <yongzh at cs dot uchicago dot edu>.
.PP
VDS
.B http://www.griphyn.org/vds/
.br
GriPhyN
.BR http://www.griphyn.org/
