==================
pegasus-statistics
==================

1
pegasus-statistics
A tool to generate statistics about the workflow run.
   ::

      pegasus-statistics [-h|--help]
                         [-o|--output dir]
                         [-c|--conf propfile]
                         [-p|--statistics-level level]
                         [-t|--time-filter filter]
                         [-i|--ignore-db-inconsistency]
                         [-v|--verbose]
                         [-q|--quiet]
                         [-m|--multiple-wf]
                         [-p|--ispmc]
                         [-u|--isuuid]
                         [[submitdir ..] | [workflow_uuid ..]]

.. __description:

Description
===========

pegasus-statistics generates statistics about the workflow run like
total jobs/tasks/sub workflows ran, how many succeeded/failed etc. It
generates job instance statistics like run time, condor queue delay etc.
It generates invocation statistics information grouped by transformation
name. It also generates job instance and invocation statistics
information grouped by time and host.

.. __options:

Options
=======

**-h**; \ **--help**
   Prints a usage summary with all the available command-line options.

**-o** *dir*; \ **--output** *dir*
   Writes the output to the given directory.

**-c** *propfile*; \ **--conf** *propfile*
   The properties file to use. This option overrides all other property
   files.

**-s** *level*; \ **--statistics-level** *level*
   Specifies the statistics information to generate. Valid levels are:
   **all**, **summary**, **wf_stats**, **jb_stats**, **tf_stats**,
   **ti_stats**, **int_stats**. Default is **summary**. The output
   generated by pegasus-statistics is based on the the *level* set:

   -  **all**: generates all the statistics information.

   -  **summary**: generates the workflow statistics summary. In the
      case of a hierarchical workflow the summary is across all sub
      workflows.

   -  **wf_stats**: generates the workflow statistics information of
      each individual workflow. In case of a hierarchical workflow the
      workflow statistics are created for each sub workflow.

   -  **jb_stats**: generates the job statistics information of each
      individual workflow. In case of hierarchical workflow the job
      statistics is created for each sub workflows. Note: Not supported
      when generating statistics over multiple workflows.

   -  **tf_stats**: generates the invocation statistics information of
      each individual workflow grouped by transformation name .In case
      of hierarchical workflow the transformation statistics is created
      for each sub workflows.

   -  **ti_stats**: generates the job instance and invocation statistics
      like total count and runtime grouped by time and host.

   -  **int_stats**: generates integrity metrcis like count, duration of
      integrity checks.

**-t** *filter*; \ **--time-filter** *filter*
   Specifies the time filter to group the time statistics. Valid
   *filter* values are: **month**, **week**, **day**, **hour**. Default
   is **day**.

**-i**; \ **--ignore-db-inconsistency**
   Turn off the the check for database consistency.

**-v**; \ **--verbose**
   Increases the log level. If omitted, the default level will be set to
   WARNING. When this option is given, the log level is changed to INFO.
   If this option is repeated, the log level will be changed to DEBUG.

**-q**; \ **--quiet**
   Decreases the log level. If omitted, the default level will be set to
   WARNING. When this option is given, the log level is changed to
   ERROR.

**-m**; \ **--multiple-wf**
   Set this option when generating statistics over more than one
   workflow. The tool automatically sets this flag if multiple submit
   directories or multiple workflow UUIDs are provided. This option
   would need to be set explicitly only to generate statistics over all
   workflows in a single STAMPEDE database. NOTE: When workflows are
   specified as UUIDs the --conf options needs to be set for the tool to
   determine the STAMPEDE database URL.

**-p**; \ **--ispmc**
   Set this flag to generate statistics for workflows which are run with
   PMC clustering enabled. It is recommended that this option be used
   when calculating statistics over multiple workflow runs.

**-u**; \ **--isuuid**
   Set this option if the positional argument are workflow UUIDs. NOTE:
   When workflows are specified as UUIDs the --conf options needs to be
   set for the tool to determine the STAMPEDE database URL.

.. __example:

Example
=======

Runs pegasus-statistics and writes the output to the given directory:

::

   $ pegasus-statistics  -o /scratch/statistics /scratch/grid-setup/run0001

Runs pegasus-statistics over a workflow run identified by a single
workflow UUID:

::

   $ pegasus-statistics  --conf pegasusrc --isuuid 316f2986-7754-44ec-8b38-fcd0cb602ce0

Runs pegasus-statistics over a workflow run identified by a multiple
workflow UUID:

::

   $ pegasus-statistics  --conf pegasusrc --isuuid 316f2986-7754-44ec-8b38-fcd0cb602ce0 \
   7ef77af8-4eb2-45ca-b37d-c5a02186133a

Runs pegasus-statistics over all workflows in the STAMPEDE database:

::

   $ pegasus-statistics  --conf pegasusrc --multiple-wf

.. __authors:

Authors
=======

Prasanth Thomas Rajiv Mayani

Pegasus Team http://pegasus.isi.edu
